insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms  1:1-2','Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers; but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 2:7-8','I will tell of the decree: The Lord said to me, ‘You are my Son; today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession.’');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 2:11-12','Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 3:3-4','But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head. I cried aloud to the Lord, and he answered me from his holy hill.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 4:1','Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness! You have given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me and hear my prayer!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 4:4-5','Be angry, and do not sin; ponder in your own hearts on your beds, and be silent. Offer right sacrifices, and put your trust in the Lord.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 5:2-3','Give attention to the sound of my cry, my King and my God, for to you do I pray. O Lord, in the morning you hear my voice; in the morning I prepare a sacrifice for you and watch.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 5:11-12','But let all who take refuge in you rejoice; let them ever sing for joy, and spread your protection over them, that those who love your name may exult in you. For you bless the righteous, O Lord; you cover him with favor as with a shield.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 6:3-4','My soul also is greatly troubled. But you, O Lord--how long? Turn, O Lord, deliver my life; save me for the sake of your steadfast love.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 7:10-11','My shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart. God is a righteous judge, and a God who feels indignation every day.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 8:3-4','When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him?');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 9:1-2','I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart; I will recount all of your wonderful deeds. I will be glad and exult in you; I will sing praise to your name, O Most High.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 9:9-10','The Lord is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in daytimes of trouble. And those who know your name put their trust in you, for you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 10:16-17','The Lord is king forever andever; the nations perish from his land. O Lord, you hear the desire of the afflicted; you will strengthen their heart; you will incline your ear');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 11:4-5','The Lord is in his holy temple; the Lords throne is in heaven; his eyes see, his eyelids test the children of man. The Lord tests the righteous, but his soul hates the wicked and the one who loves violence.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 12:6-7','The words of the Lord are pure words, like silver refined in a furnace on the ground, purified seven daytimes. You, O Lord, will keep them; you will guard us from this generation forever.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 13:5-6','But I have trusted in your steadfast love; my heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord, because he has dealt bountifully with me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 14:1-2','The fool says in his heart, ‘There is no God.’ They are corrupt, they do abominable deeds, there is none who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man, to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 15:1-2','O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks truth in his heart;');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 16:1-2','Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. I say to the Lord, ‘You are my Lord; I have no good apart from you.’');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 16:7-8','I bless the Lord who gives me counsel; in the night also my heart instructs me. I have set the Lord always before me; because he is at my right hand, I shall not be shaken.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 16:9-11','Therefore my heart is glad, and my whole being rejoices; my flesh also dwells secure. For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol, or let your holy one see corruption. You make known to me the path of life; in your presence there is fullness of joy; at your right hand are pleasures forevermore.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 17:1-2','Hear a just cause, O Lord; attend to my cry! Give ear to my prayer from lips free of deceit! From your presence let my vindication come! Let your eyes behold the right!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 17:6-7','I call upon you, for you will answer me, O God; incline your ear to me; hear my words. Wondrously show your steadfast love, O Savior of those who seek refuge from their adversaries at your right hand.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 18:1-2','I love you, O Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 18:27-28','For you save a humble people, but the haughty eyes you bring down. For it is you who light my lamp; the Lord my God lightens my darkness.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 18:31-33','For who is God, but the Lord? And who is a rock, except our God?— the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless. He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 18:46','The Lord lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation—');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 19:1-2','The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 19:7-9','The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul; the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple; the precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes; the fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever; the rules of the Lord are true, and righteous altogether.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 19:12-13','Who can discern his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. Keep back your servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me! Then I shall be blameless, and innocent of great transgression.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 19:14','Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 20:1-2','May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble! May the name of the God of Jacob protect you! May he send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 20:6-7','Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed; he will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand. Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we trust in the name of the Lord our God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 21:11-13','Though they plan evil against you, though they devise mischief, they will not succeed. For you will put them to flight; you will aim at their faces with your bows. Be exalted, O Lord, in your strength! We will sing and praise your power.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 22:3-5','Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel. In you our fathers trusted; they trusted, and you delivered them. To you they cried and were rescued; in you they trusted and were not put to shame.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 22:22-23','I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will praise you: You who fear the Lord, praise him! All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 22:25-26','From you comes my praise in the great congregation; my vows I will perform before those who fear him. The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied; those who seek him shall praise the Lord! May your hearts live forever!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 23:1-3','The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his names sake.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 23:4-5','Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; you anoint my head with oil; my cup overflows.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 23:6','Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 24:3-5','Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully. He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 25:4-5','Make me to know your ways, O Lord; teach me your paths. Lead me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation; for you I wait all the day long.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 25:8-9','Good and upright is the Lord; therefore he instructs sinners in the way. He leads the humble in what is right, and teaches the humble his way.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 25:14-15','The friendship of the Lord is for those who fear him, and he makes known to them his covenant. My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for he will pluck my feet out of the net.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 25:16-18','Turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted. The troubles of my heart are enlarged; bring me out of my distresses. Consider my affliction and my trouble, and forgive all my sins.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 26:2-3','Prove me, O Lord, and try me; test my heart and my mind. For your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 26:11-12','But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity; redeem me, and be gracious to me. My foot stands on level ground; in the great assembly I will bless the Lord.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 27:1-2','The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 27:4-5','One thing have I asked of the Lord, that will I seek after: that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble; he will conceal me under the cover of his tent; he will lift me high upon a rock.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 27:8-9','You have said, ‘Seek my face.’ My heart says to you, ‘Your face, Lord, do I seek.’ Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger, O you who have been my help. Cast me not off; forsake me not, O God of my salvation!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 27:13-14','I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living! Wait for the Lord; be strong, and let your heart take courage; wait for the Lord!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 28:1-2','To you, O Lord, I call; my rock, be not deaf to me, lest, if you be silent to me, I become like those who go down to the pit. Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy, when I cry to you for help, when I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 28:6-7','Blessed be the Lord! For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy. The Lord is my strength and my shield; in him my heart trusts, and I am helped; my heart exults, and with my song I give thanks to him.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 29:1-2','Ascribe to the Lord, O heavenly beings, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name; worship the Lord in the splendor of holiness.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 30:2-3','O Lord my God, I cried to you for help, and you have healed me. O Lord, you have brought up my soul from Sheol; you restored me to life from among those who go down to the pit.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 30:11-12','You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; you have loosed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness, that my glory may sing your praise and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks to you forever!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 31:1-2','In you, O Lord, do I take refuge; let me never be put to shame; in your righteousness deliver me! Incline your ear to me; rescue me speedily! Be a rock of refuge for me, a strong fortress to save me!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 31:3-5','For you are my rock and my fortress; and for your names sake you lead me and guide me; you take me out of the net they have hidden for me, for you are my refuge. Into your hand I commit my spirit; you have redeemed me, O Lord, faithful God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 31:14-16','But I trust in you, O Lord; I say, ‘You are my God.’ My daytimes are in your hand; rescue me from the hand of my enemies and from my persecutors! Make your face shine on your servant; save me in your steadfast love!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 31:21-22','Blessed be the Lord, for he has wondrously shown his steadfast love to me when I was in a besieged city. I had said in my alarm, ‘I am cut off from your sight.’ But you heard the voice of my pleas for mercy when I cried to you for help.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 31:23-24','Love the Lord, all you his saints! The Lord preserves the faithful but abundantly repays the one who acts in pride. Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who wait for the Lord!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 32:1-2','Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 32:5','I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity; I said, ‘I will confess my transgressions to the Lord,’ and you forgave the iniquity of my sin.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 32:8-9','I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will counsel you with my eye upon you. Be not like a horse or a mule, without understanding, which must be curbed with bit and bridle, or it will not stay near you.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 33:4-5','For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice; the earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 33:10-11','The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing; he frustrates the plans of the peoples. The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 33:20-22','Our soul waits for the Lord; he is our help and our shield. For our heart is glad in him, because we trust in his holy name. Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us, even as we hope in you.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 34:1-2','I will bless the Lord at all daytimes; his praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul makes its boast in the Lord; let the humble hear and be glad.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 34:8-9','Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good! Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him! Oh, fear the Lord, you his saints, for those who fear him have no lack!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 35:27-28','Let those who delight in my righteousness shout for joy and be glad and say evermore, ‘Great is the Lord, who delights in the welfare of his servant!’ Then my tongue shall tell of your righteousness and of your praise all the day long.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 36:1-3','Transgression speaks to the wicked deep in his heart; there is no fear of God before his eyes. For he flatters himself in his own eyes that his iniquity cannot be found out and hated. The words of his mouth are trouble and deceit; he has ceased to act wisely and do good.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 36:7-9','How precious is your steadfast love, O God! The children of mankind take refuge in the shadow of your wings. They feast on the abundance of your house, and you give them drink from the river of your delights. For with you is the fountain of life; in your light do we see light.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 37:3-4','Trust in the Lord, and do good; dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness. Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 37:39-40','The salvation of the righteous is from the Lord; he is their stronghold in the daytime of trouble. The Lord helps them and delivers them; he delivers them from the wicked and saves them, because they take refuge in him.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 38:15-18','But for you, O Lord, do I wait; it is you, O Lord my God, who will answer. For I said, ‘Only let them not rejoice over me, who boast against me when my foot slips!’ For I am ready to fall, and my pain is ever before me. 18 I confess my iniquity; I am sorry for my sin.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 39:4-5','O Lord, make me know my end and what is the measure of my days; let me know how fleeting I am! Behold, you have made my days a few handbreadths, and my lifedaytime is as nothing before you. Surely all mankind stands as a mere breath!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 40:4-5','Blessed is the man who makes the Lord his trust, who does not turn to the proud, to those who go astray after a lie! You have multiplied, O Lord my God, your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us; none can compare with you! I will proclaim and tell of them, yet they are more than can be told.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 40:16-17','But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; may those who love your salvation say continually, ‘Great is the Lord!’ As for me, I am poor and needy, but the Lord takes thought for me. You are my help and my deliverer; do not delay, O my God!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 41:11-13','By this I know that you delight in me: my enemy will not shout in triumph over me. But you have upheld me because of my integrity, and set me in your presence forever. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! Amen and Amen.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 42:1-2','As a deer pants for flowing streams, so pants my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God?');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 42:11','Why are you cast down, O my soul, and why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God; for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 43:3-4','Send out your light and your truth; let them lead me; let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling! Then I will go to the altar of God, to God my exceeding joy, and I will praise you with the lyre, O God, my God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 44:25-26','For our soul is bowed down to the dust; our belly clings to the ground. Rise up; come to our help! Redeem us for the sake of your steadfast love!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 45:6-7','Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of uprightness; you have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions;');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 46:1-2','God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea,');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 46:10-11','‘Be still, and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth!’ The Lord of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our fortress.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 47:5-6','God has gone up with a shout, the Lord with the sound of a trumpet. Sing praises to God, sing praises! Sing praises to our King, sing praises!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 48:9-10','We have thought on your steadfast love, O God, in the midst of your temple. As your name, O God, so your praise reaches to the ends of the earth. Your right hand is filled with righteousness.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 49:14-15','Like sheep they are appointed for Sheol; death shall be their shepherd, and the upright shall rule over them in the morning. Their form shall be consumed in Sheol, with no place to dwell. But God will ransom my soul from the power of Sheol, for he will receive me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 50:14-15','Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and perform your vows to the Most High, and call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 51:1-2','Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love; according to your abundant mercy blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 51:3-4','For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 51:6-7','Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 51:15-17','O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise. For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it; you will not be pleased with a burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit; a broken and contrite heart, O God, you will not despise.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 52:8-9','But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God. I trust in the steadfast love of God forever and ever. I will thank you forever, because you have done it. I will wait for your name, for it is good, in the presence of the godly.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 53:1-2','The fool says in his heart, ‘There is no God.’ They are corrupt, doing abominable iniquity; there is none who does good. God looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 54:1-2','O God, save me by your name, and vindicate me by your might. O God, hear my prayer; give ear to the words of my mouth.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 55:16-17','But I call to God, and the Lord will save me. Evening and morning and at noon I utter my complaint and moan, and he hears my voice.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 56:3-4','When I am afraid, I put my trust in you. In God, whose word I praise, in God I trust; I shall not be afraid. What can flesh do to me?');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 56:12-13','I must perform my vows to you, O God; I will render thank offerings to you. For you have delivered my soul from death, yes, my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of life.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 57:1-2','Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me, for in you my soul takes refuge; in the shadow of your wings I will take refuge, till the storms of destruction pass by. I cry out to God Most High, to God who fulfills his purpose for me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 57:9-11','I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations. For your steadfast love is great to the heavens, your faithfulness to the clouds. Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 58:10-11','The righteous will rejoice when he sees the vengeance; he will bathe his feet in the blood of the wicked. Mankind will say, ‘Surely there is a reward for the righteous; surely there is a God who judges on earth.’');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 59:9-10','O my Strength, I will watch for you, for you, O God, are my fortress. My God in his steadfast love will meet me; God will let me look in triumph on my enemies.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 59:16-17','But I will sing of your strength; I will sing aloud of your steadfast love in the morning. For you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress. O my Strength, I will sing praises to you, for you, O God, are my fortress, the God who shows me steadfast love.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 60:4-5','You have set up a banner for those who fear you, that they may flee to it from the bow. That your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer us!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 60:11-12','Oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man! With God we shall do valiantly; it is he who will tread down our foes.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 61:1-3','Hear my cry, O God, listen to my prayer; from the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I, for you have been my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 62:1-2','For God alone my soul waits in silence; from him comes my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress; I shall not be greatly shaken.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 62:7-8','On God rests my salvation and my glory; my mighty rock, my refuge is God. Trust in him at all daytimes, O people; pour out your heart before him; God is a refuge for us.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 63:1-3','O God, you are my God; earnestly I seek you; my soul thirsts for you; my flesh faints for you, as in a dry and weary land where there is no water. So I have looked upon you in the sanctuary, beholding your power and glory. Because your steadfast love is better than life, my lips will praise you.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 64:1-2','Hear my voice, O God, in my complaint; preserve my life from dread of the enemy. Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, from the throng of evildoers,');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 65:1-2','Praise is due to you, O God, in Zion, and to you shall vows be performed. O you who hear prayer, to you shall all flesh come.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 65:3-4','When iniquities prevail against me, you atone for our transgressions. Blessed is the one you choose and bring near, to dwell in your courts! We shall be satisfied with the goodness of your house, the holiness of your temple!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 65:9-10','You visit the earth and water it; you greatly enrich it; the river of God is full of water; you provide their grain, for so you have prepared it. You water its furrows abundantly, settling its ridges, softening it with showers, and blessing its growth.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 66:16-17','Come and hear, all you who fear God, and I will tell what he has done for my soul. I cried to him with my mouth, and high praise was on my tongue.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 66:18-19','If I had cherished iniquity in my heart, the Lord would not have listened. But truly God has listened; he has attended to the voice of my prayer.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 67:1-2','May God be gracious to us and bless us and make his face to shine upon us, that your way may be known on earth, your saving power among all nations.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 68:5-6','Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation. God settles the solitary in a home; he leads out the prisoners to prosperity, but the rebellious dwell in a parched land.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 68:19-20','Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears us up; God is our salvation. Our God is a God of salvation, and to God, the Lord, belong deliverances from death.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 68:34-35','Ascribe power to God, whose majesty is over Israel, and whose power is in the skies. Awesome is God from his sanctuary; the God of Israel— he is the one who gives power and strength to his people. Blessed be God!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 69:5-6','O God, you know my folly; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you. Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me, O Lord God of hosts; let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, O God of Israel.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 69:13-14','But as for me, my prayer is to you, O Lord. At an acceptable O God, in the abundance of your steadfast love answer me in your saving faithfulness. Deliver me from sinking in the mire; let me be delivered from my enemies and from the deep waters.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 70:4-5','May all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you! May those who love your salvation say evermore, ‘God is great!’ But I am poor and needy; hasten to me, O God! You are my help and my deliverer; O Lord, do not delay!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 71:8-9','My mouth is filled with your praise, and with your glory all the day. Do not cast me off in the daytime of old age; forsake me not when my strength is spent.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 71:14-15','But I will hope continually and will praise you yet more and more. My mouth will tell of your righteous acts, of your deeds of salvation all the day, for their number is past my knowledge.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 71:19-20','Your righteousness, O God, reaches the high heavens. You who have done great things, O God, who is like you? You who have made me see many troubles and calamities will revive me again; from the depths of the earth you will bring me up again.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 72:18-19','Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, who alone does wondrous things. Blessed be his glorious name forever; may the whole earth be filled with his glory! Amen and Amen!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 73:1-3','Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped. For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 73:25-26','Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 74:10-12','How long, O God, is the foe to scoff? Is the enemy to revile your name forever? Why do you hold back your hand, your right hand? Take it from the fold of your garment and destroy them! Yet God my King is from of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 75:6-8','For not from the east or from the west and not from the wilderness comes lifting up, but it is God who executes judgment, putting down one and lifting up another. For in the hand of the Lord there is a cup with foaming wine, well mixed, and he pours out from it, and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 76:7-9','But you, you are to be feared! Who can stand before you when once your anger is roused? From the heavens you uttered judgment; the earth feared and was still, when God arose to establish judgment, to save all the humble of the earth.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 77:1-2','I cry aloud to God, aloud to God, and he will hear me. In the day of my trouble I seek the Lord; in the night my hand is stretched out without wearying; my soul refuses to be comforted.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 77:9-10','’Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion?’ Then I said, ‘I will appeal to this, to the years of the right hand of the Most High.’');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 77:11-13','I will remember the deeds of the Lord; yes, I will remember your wonders of old. I will ponder all your work, and meditate on your mighty deeds. Your way, O God, is holy. What god is great like our God?');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 78:70-72','He chose David his servant and took him from the sheepfolds; from following the nursing ewes he brought him to shepherd Jacob his people, Israel his inheritance. With upright heart he shepherded them and guided them with his skillful hand.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 79:8-9','Do not remember against us our former iniquities; let your compassion come speedily to meet us, for we are brought very low. Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of your name; deliver us, and atone for our sins, for your names sake!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 79:13','But we your people, the sheep of your pasture, will give thanks to you forever; from generation to generation we will recount your praise.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 80:1-3','Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock! You who are enthroned upon the cherubim, shine forth. Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might and come to save us! Restore us, O God; let your face shine, that we may be saved!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 80:17-19','But let your hand be on the man of your right hand, the son of man whom you have made strong for yourself! Then we shall not turn back from you; give us life, and we will call upon your name! Restore us, O Lord God of hosts! Let your face shine, that we may be saved!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 81:8-10','Hear, O my people, while I admonish you! O Israel, if you would but listen to me! There shall be no strange god among you; you shall not bow down to a foreign god. I am the LORD your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 82:3-4','Give justice to the weak and the fatherless; maintain the right of the afflicted and the destitute. Rescue the weak and the needy; deliver them from the hand of the wicked.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 83:17-18','Let them be put to shame and dismayed forever; let them perish in disgrace, that they may know that you alone, whose name is the Lord, are the Most High over all the earth.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 84:1-2','How lovely is your dwelling place, O Lord of hosts! My soul longs, yes, faints for the courts of the Lord; my heart and flesh sing for joy to the living God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 84:5-7','Blessed are those whose strength is in you, in whose heart are the highways to Zion. As they go through the Valley of Baca they make it a place of springs; the early rain also covers it with pools. They go from strength to strength; each one appears before God in Zion.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 84:8-9','O Lord God of hosts, hear my prayer; give ear, O God of Jacob! Behold our shield, O God; look on the face of your anointed!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 84:10-12','For a day in your courts is better than a thousand elsewhere. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. For the Lord God is a sun and shield; the Lord bestows favor and honor. No good thing does he withhold from those who walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts, blessed is the one who trusts in you!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 85:8-9','Let me hear what God the Lord will speak, for he will speak peace to his people, to his saints; but let them not turn back to folly. Surely his salvation is near to those who fear him, that glory may dwell in our land.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 86:3-4','Be gracious to me, O Lord, for to you do I cry all the day. Gladden the soul of your servant, for to you, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 86:6-7','Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer; listen to my plea for grace. In the day of my trouble I call upon you, for you answer me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 86:11-13','Teach me your way, O Lord, that I may walk in your truth; unite my heart to fear your name. I give thanks to you, O Lord my God, with my whole heart, and I will glorify your name forever. For great is your steadfast love toward me; you have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 86:15-16','But you, O Lord, are a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Turn to me and be gracious to me; give your strength to your servant, and save the son of your maidservant.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 87:1-3','On the holy mount stands the city he founded; the Lord loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwelling places of Jacob. Glorious things of you are spoken, O city of God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 88:1-3','O Lord, God of my salvation; I cry out day and night before you. Let my prayer come before you; incline your ear to my cry! For my soul is full of troubles, and my life draws near to Sheol.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 88:13-15','But I, O Lord, cry to you; in the morning my prayer comes before you. O Lord, why do you cast my soul away? Why do you hide your face from me? Afflicted and close to death from my youth up, I suffer your terrors; I am helpless.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 89:1-2','I will sing of the steadfast love of the Lord, forever; with my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations. For I said, ‘Steadfast love will be built up forever; in the heavens you will establish your faithfulness.’');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 89:6-7','For who in the skies can be compared to the Lord? Who among the heavenly beings is like the Lord, a God greatly to be feared in the council of the holy ones, and awesome above all who are around him?');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 89:14-16','Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne; steadfast love and faithfulness go before you. Blessed are the people who know the festal shout, who walk, O Lord, in the light of your face, who exult in your name all the day and in your righteousness are exalted.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 90:1-2','Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting you are God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 90:12-14','So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom. Return, O Lord! How long? Have pity on your servants! Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 90:16-17','Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish the work of our hands upon us; yes, establish the work of our hands!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 91:1-2','He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty. I will say to the Lord, ‘My refuge and my fortress, my God, in whom I trust.’');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 91:3-4','For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler and from the deadly pestilence. He will cover you with his pinions, and under his wings you will find refuge; his faithfulness is a shield and buckler.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 91:14-16','Because he holds fast to me in love, I will deliver him; I will protect him, because he knows my name. When he calls to me, I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble; I will rescue him and honor him. With long life I will satisfy him and show him my salvation.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 92:1-2','It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises to your name, O Most High; to declare your steadfast love in the morning, and your faithfulness by night,');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 92:12-13','The righteous flourish like the palm tree and grow like a cedar in Lebanon. They are planted in the house of the Lord; they flourish in the courts of our God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 93:1-2','The Lord reigns; he is robed in majesty; the Lord is robed; he has put on strength as his belt. Yes, the world is established; it shall never be moved. Your throne is established from of old; you are from everlasting.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 94:12-14','Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O Lord, and whom you teach out of your law, to give him rest from days of trouble, until a pit is dug for the wicked. For the Lord will not forsake his people; he will not abandon his heritage;');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 94:17-18','If the LORD had not been my help, my soul would soon have lived in the land of silence. When I thought, ‘My foot slips,’ your steadfast love, O Lord, held me up.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 95:1-2','Oh come, let us sing to the Lord; let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation! Let us come into his presence with thanksgiving; let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 95:6-7','Oh come, let us worship and bow down; let us kneel before the Lord, our Maker! For he is our God, and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. Today, if you hear his voice,');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 96:1-2','Oh sing to the Lord a new song; sing to the Lord, all the earth! Sing to the Lord, bless his name; tell of his salvation from day to day.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 96:3-5','Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous works among all the peoples! For great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised; he is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the Lord made the heavens.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 96:8-9','Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name; bring an offering, and come into his courts! Worship the Lord in the splendor of holiness; tremble before him, all the earth!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 97:10-12','O you who love the Lord, hate evil! He preserves the lives of his saints; he delivers them from the hand of the wicked. Light is sown for the righteous, and joy for the upright in heart. Rejoice in the Lord, O you righteous, and give thanks to his holy name!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 98:1-2','Oh sing to the Lord a new song, for he has done marvelous things! His right hand and his holy arm have worked salvation for him. The Lord has made known his salvation; he has revealed his righteousness in the sight of the nations.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 99:8-9','O Lord our God, you answered them; you were a forgiving God to them, but an avenger of their wrongdoings. Exalt the Lord our God, and worship at his holy mountain; for the Lord our God is holy!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 100:3-4','Know that the Lord, he is God! It is he who made us, and we are his; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture. Enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise! Give thanks to him; bless his name!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 101:2-4','I will ponder the way that is blameless. Oh when will you come to me? I will walk with integrity of heart within my house; I will not set before my eyes anything that is worthless. I hate the work of those who fall away; it shall not cling to me. A perverse heart shall be far from me; I will know nothing of evil.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 102:1-2','Hear my prayer, O Lord; let my cry come to you! Do not hide your face from me in the day of my distress! Incline your ear to me; answer me speedily in the day when I call!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 102:25-27','Of old you laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands. They will perish, but you will remain; they will all wear out like a garment. You will change them like a robe, and they will pass away, but you are the same, and your years have no end.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 103:1-4','Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name! Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your iniquity, who heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit, who crowns you with steadfast love and mercy,');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 103:11-12','For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his steadfast love toward those who fear him; as far as the east is from the west, so far does he remove our transgressions from us.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 103:15-17','As for man, his days are like grass; he flourishes like a flower of the field; for the wind passes over it, and it is gone, and its place knows it no more. But the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting on those who fear him, and his righteousness to childrens children,');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 103:19','The Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 103:20-22','Bless the Lord, O you his angels, you mighty ones who do his word, obeying the voice of his word! Bless the Lord, all his hosts, his ministers, who do his will! Bless the Lord, all his works, in all places of his dominion. Bless the Lord, O my soul!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 104:1-2','Bless the Lord, O my soul! O Lord my God, you are very great! You are clothed with splendor and majesty, covering yourself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 104:24','O Lord, how manifold are your works! In wisdom have you made them all; the earth is full of your creatures.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 104:33-34','I will sing to the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have being. May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the Lord.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 105:1-2','Oh give thanks to the Lord; call upon his name; make known his deeds among the peoples! Sing to him, sing praises to him; tell of all his wondrous works!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 105:3-4','Glory in his holy name; let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice! Seek the Lord and his strength; seek his presence continually!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 105:7-8','He is the Lord our God; his judgments are in all the earth. He remembers his covenant forever, the word that he commanded, for a thousand generations,');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 106:1-3','Praise the Lord! Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever! Who can utter the mighty deeds of the Lord, or declare all his praise? Blessed are they who observe justice, who do righteousness at all daytimes!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 106:47-48','Save us, O Lord our God, and gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise. Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! And let all the people say, ‘Amen!’ Praise the LORD!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 107:1-2','Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever! Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he has redeemed from trouble');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 108:3-4','I will give thanks to you, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing praises to you among the nations. For your steadfast love is great above the heavens; your faithfulness reaches to the clouds.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 108:5-6','Be exalted, O God, above the heavens! Let your glory be over all the earth! That your beloved ones may be delivered, give salvation by your right hand and answer me!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 109:21-22','But you, O God my Lord, deal on my behalf for your names sake; because your steadfast love is good, deliver me! For I am poor and needy, and my heart is stricken within me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 109:30-31','With my mouth I will give great thanks to the Lord; I will praise him in the midst of the throng. For he stands at the right hand of the needy one, to save him from those who condemn his soul to death.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 110:1-2','The Lord says to my Lord: ‘Sit at my right hand, until I make your enemies your footstool.’ The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter. Rule in the midst of your enemies!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 111:1-2','Praise the Lord! I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart, in the company of the upright, in the congregation. Great are the works of the Lord, studied by all who delight in them.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 111:7-8','The works of his hands are faithful and just; all his precepts are trustworthy; they are established forever and ever, to be performed with faithfulness and uprightness.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 111:9-10','He sent redemption to his people; he has commanded his covenant forever. Holy and awesome is his name! The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; all those who practice it have a good understanding. His praise endures forever!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 112:1','Praise the Lord! Blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who greatly delights in his commandments!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 112:5-7','It is well with the man who deals generously and lends; who conducts his affairs with justice. For the righteous will never be moved; he will be remembered forever. He is not afraid of bad news; his heart is firm, trusting in the Lord.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 113:1-3','Praise the Lord! Praise, O servants of the Lord, praise the name of the Lord! Blessed be the name of the Lord from this daytime forth and forevermore! From the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the Lord is to be praised!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 114:7','Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob,');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 115:1-3','Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory, for the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness! Why should the nations say, ‘Where is their God?’ Our God is in the heavens; he does all that he pleases.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 115:16-18','The heavens are the Lords heavens, but the earth he has given to the children of man. The dead do not praise the Lord, nor do any who go down into silence. But we will bless the Lord from this daytime forth and forevermore. Praise the Lord!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 116:1-2','I love the Lord, because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy. Because he inclined his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 116:12-14','What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me? I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the Lord, I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 116:15-16','Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. O Lord, I am your servant; I am your servant, the son of your maidservant. You have loosed my bonds.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 117:1-2','Praise the Lord, all nations! Extol him, all peoples! For great is his steadfast love toward us, and the faithfulness of the Lord endures forever. Praise the Lord!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 118:1','Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 118:5-6','Out of my distress I called on the Lord; the Lord answered me and set me free. The Lord is on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me?');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 118:14-15','The Lord is my strength and my song; he has become my salvation. Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous: ‘The right hand of the Lord does valiantly,’');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 118:19-21','Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the Lord. This is the gate of the Lord; the righteous shall enter through it. I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 118:22-24','The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This is the Lords doing; it is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day that the Lord has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 118:26-27','Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! We bless you from the house of the Lord. The Lord is God, and he has made his light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords, up to the horns of the altar!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 118:28-29','You are my God, and I will give thanks to you; you are my God; I will extol you. Oh give thanks to the Lord, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:1-2','Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord! Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart,');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:4-5','You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently. Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:9-11','How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. With my whole heart I seek you; let me not wander from your commandments! I have stored up your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:17-19','Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live and keep your word. Open my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of your law. I am a sojourner on the earth; hide not your commandments from me!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:25-27','My soul clings to the dust; give me life according to your word! When I told of my ways, you answered me; teach me your statutes! Make me understand the way of your precepts, and I will meditate on your wondrous works.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:29-30','Put false ways far from me and graciously teach me your law! I have chosen the way of faithfulness; I set your rules before me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:33-34','Teach me, O Lord, the way of your statutes; and I will keep it to the end. Give me understanding, that I may keep your law and observe it with my whole heart.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:36-37','Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to selfish gain! Turn my eyes from looking at worthless things; and give me life in your ways.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:41-42','Let your steadfast love come to me, O Lord, your salvation according to your promise; then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me, for I trust in your word.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:49-50','Remember your word to your servant, in which you have made me hope. This is my comfort in my affliction, that your promise gives me life.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:55-56','I remember your name in the night, O Lord, and keep your law. This blessing has fallen to me, that I have kept your precepts.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:57-58','The Lord is my portion; I promise to keep your words. I entreat your favor with all my heart; be gracious to me according to your promise.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:62-63','At midnight I rise to praise you, because of your righteous rules. I am a companion of all who fear you, of those who keep your precepts.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:67-68','Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep your word. You are good and do good; teach me your statutes.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:71-72','It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes. The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:73-74','Your hands have made and fashioned me; give me understanding that I may learn your commandments. Those who fear you shall see me and rejoice, because I have hoped in your word.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:76-77','Let your steadfast love comfort me according to your promise to your servant. Let your mercy come to me, that I may live; for your law is my delight.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:81-82','My soul longs for your salvation; I hope in your word. My eyes long for your promise; I ask, ‘When will you comfort me?’');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:88','In your steadfast love give me life, that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:89-90','Forever, O Lord, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens. Your faithfulness endures to all generations; you have established the earth, and it stands fast.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:97-98','Oh how I love your law! It is my meditation all the day. Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies, for it is ever with me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:103-104','How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth! Through your precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:105-106','Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. I have sworn an oath and confirmed it, to keep your righteous rules.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:111-112','Your testimonies are my heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart. I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever, to the end.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:113-115','I hate the double-minded, but I love your law. You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in your word. Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:127-128','Therefore I love your commandments above gold, above fine gold. Therefore I consider all your precepts to be right; I hate every false way.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:132-133','Turn to me and be gracious to me, as is your way with those who love your name. Keep steady my steps according to your promise, and let no iniquity get dominion over me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:135-136','Make your face shine upon your servant, and teach me your statutes. My eyes shed streams of tears, because people do not keep your law.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:137-138','Righteous are you, O Lord, and right are your rules. You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:141-142','I am small and despised, yet I do not forget your precepts. Your righteousness is righteous forever, and your law is true.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:147-148','I rise before dawn and cry for help; I hope in your words. My eyes are awake before the watches of the night, that I may meditate on your promise.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:159-160','Consider how I love your precepts! Give me life according to your steadfast love. The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your righteous rules endures forever.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:162-164','I rejoice at your word like one who finds great spoil. I hate and abhor falsehood, but I love your law. Seven daytimes a day I praise you for your righteous rules.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:171-173','My lips will pour forth praise, for you teach me your statutes. My tongue will sing of your word, for all your commandments are right. Let your hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen your precepts.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 119:174-176','I long for your salvation, O Lord, and your law is my delight. Let my soul live and praise you, and let your rules help me. I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek your servant, for I do not forget your commandments.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 120:1-2','In my distress I called to the Lord, and he answered me. Deliver me, O Lord, from lying lips, from a deceitful tongue.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 121:1-2','I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come? My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 121:7-8','The Lord will keep you from all evil; he will keep your life. The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this daytime forth and forevermore.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 122:6-8','Pray for the peace of Jerusalem! ‘May they be secure who love you! Peace be within your walls and security within your towers!’ For my brothers and companions sake I will say, ‘Peace be within you!’');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 123:1-2','To you I lift up my eyes, O you who are enthroned in the heavens! Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their master, as the eyes of a maidservant to the hand of her mistress, so our eyes look to the Lord our God, till he has mercy upon us.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 124:6-8','Blessed be the Lord, who has not given us as prey to their teeth! We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers; the snare is broken, and we have escaped! Our help is in the name of the Lord, who made heaven and earth.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 125:1-2','Those who trust in the Lord are like Mount Zion, which cannot be moved, but abides forever. As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the Lord surrounds his people, from this daytime forth and forevermore.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 126:2-3','Then our mouth was filled with laughter, and our tongue with shouts of joy; then they said among the nations, ‘The Lord has done great things for them.’ The LORD has done great things for us; we are glad.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 127:1','Unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 128:1-2','Blessed is everyone who fears the Lord, who walks in his ways! You shall eat the fruit of the labor of your hands; you shall be blessed, and it shall be well with you.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 129:4-5','The Lord is righteous; he has cut the cords of the wicked. May all who hate Zion be put to shame and turned backward!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 130:1-2','Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord! O Lord, hear my voice! Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 130:3-4','If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness, that you may be feared.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 130:5-6','I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I hope; my soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 131:1-2','O Lord, my heart is not lifted up; my eyes are not raised too high; I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me. But I have calmed and quieted my soul, like a weaned child with its mother; like a weaned child is my soul within me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 132:8-10','Arise, O Lord, and go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might. Let your priests be clothed with righteousness, and let your saints shout for joy. For the sake of your servant David, do not turn away the face of your anointed one.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 133:1','Behold, how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 134:1-3','Come, bless the Lord, all you servants of the Lord, who stand by night in the house of the Lord! Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the Lord! May the Lord bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 135:1-3','Praise the Lord! Praise the name of the Lord, give praise, O servants of the Lord, who stand in the house of the Lord, in the courts of the house of our God! Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good; sing to his name, for it is pleasant!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 135:13-14','Your name, O Lord, endures forever, your renown, O Lord, throughout all ages. For the Lord will vindicate his people and have compassion on his servants.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 135:15-18','The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of human hands. They have mouths, but do not speak; they have eyes, but do not see; they have ears, but do not hear, nor is there any breath in their mouths. Those who make them become like them, so do all who trust in them!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 136:23-26','It is he who remembered us in our low estate, for his steadfast love endures forever; and rescued us from our foes, for his steadfast love endures forever; he who gives food to all flesh, for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of heaven, for his steadfast love endures forever.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 137:5-6','If I forget you, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget its skill! Let my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth, if I do not remember you, if I do not set Jerusalem above my highest joy!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 138:1-3','I give you thanks, O Lord, with my whole heart; before the gods I sing your praise; I bow down toward your holy temple and give thanks to your name for your steadfast love and your faithfulness, for you have exalted above all things your name and your word. On the day I called, you answered me; my strength of soul you increased.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 138:7-8','Though I walk in the midst of trouble, you preserve my life; you stretch out your hand against the wrath of my enemies, and your right hand delivers me. The Lord will fulfill his purpose for me; your steadfast love, O Lord, endures forever. Do not forsake the work of your hands.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 139:1-3','O Lord, you have searched me and known me! You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from afar. You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 139:11-12','If I say, ‘Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night,’ even the darkness is not dark to you; the night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 139:13-14','For you formed my inward parts; you knitted me together in my mothers womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works; my soul knows it very well.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 139:17-18','How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them! If I would count them, they are more than the sand. I awake, and I am still with you.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 139:23-24','Search me, O God, and know my heart! Try me and know my thoughts! And see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 140:6-7','I say to the Lord, You are my God; give ear to the voice of my pleas for mercy, O Lord! 7 O Lord, my Lord, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 140:12-13','I know that the Lord will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and will execute justice for the needy. Surely the righteous shall give thanks to your name; the upright shall dwell in your presence.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 141:1-2','O Lord, I call upon you; hasten to me! Give ear to my voice when I call to you! Let my prayer be counted as incense before you, and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 141:3-4','Set a guard, O Lord, over my mouth; keep watch over the door of my lips! Do not let my heart incline to any evil, to busy myself with wicked deeds in company with men who work iniquity, and let me not eat of their delicacies!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 142:1-2','With my voice I cry out to the Lord; with my voice I plead for mercy to the Lord. I pour out my complaint before him; I tell my trouble before him.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 143:1-2','Hear my prayer, O Lord; give ear to my pleas for mercy! In your faithfulness answer me, in your righteousness! Enter not into judgment with your servant, for no one living is righteous before you.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 143:5-6','I remember the days of old; I meditate on all that you have done; I ponder the work of your hands. I stretch out my hands to you; my soul thirsts for you like a parched land.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 143:7-8','Answer me quickly, O Lord! My spirit fails! Hide not your face from me, lest I be like those who go down to the pit. Let me hear in the morning of your steadfast love, for in you I trust. Make me know the way I should go, for to you I lift up my soul.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 143:11-12','For your names sake, O Lord, preserve my life! In your righteousness bring my soul out of trouble! And in your steadfast love you will cut off my enemies, and you will destroy all the adversaries of my soul, for I am your servant.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 144:1-2','Blessed be the Lord, my rock, who trains my hands for war, and my fingers for battle; he is my steadfast love and my fortress, my stronghold and my deliverer, my shield and he in whom I take refuge, who subdues peoples under me.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 145:1-2','I will extol you, my God and King, and bless your name forever and ever. Every day I will bless you and praise your name forever and ever.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 145:3','Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 145:4-5','One generation shall commend your works to another, and shall declare your mighty acts. On the glorious splendor of your majesty, and on your wondrous works, I will meditate.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 145:8-9','The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all, and his mercy is over all that he has made.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 145:10-13','All your works shall give thanks to you, O Lord, and all your saints shall bless you! They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom and tell of your power, to make known to the children of man your mighty deeds, and the glorious splendor of your kingdom. Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your dominion endures throughout all generations. [The Lord is faithful in all his words and kind in all his works.]');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 145:18-19','The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him; he also hears their cry and saves them.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 145:21','My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord, and let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 146:1-2','Praise the Lord! Praise the Lord, O my soul! I will praise the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praises to my God while I have my being.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 146:3-4','Put not your trust in princes, in a son of man, in whom there is no salvation. When his breath departs, he returns to the earth; on that very day his plans perish.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 146:5-6','Blessed is he whose help is the God of Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord his God, who made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, who keeps faith forever;');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 147:4-5','He determines the number of the stars; he gives to all of them their names. Great is our Lord, and abundant in power; his understanding is beyond measure.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 147:10-11','His delight is not in the strength of the horse, nor his pleasure in the legs of a man, but the Lord takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his steadfast love.');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 148:13-14','Let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted; his majesty is above earth and heaven. He has raised up a horn for his people, praise for all his saints, for the people of Israel who are near to him. Praise the Lord!');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 149:5-6','Let the godly exult in glory; let them sing for joy on their beds. Let the high praises of God be in their throats and two-edged swords in their hands,');
insert into afternoon (reference,msgtext) VALUES('Psalms 150:1-2','Praise the Lord! Praise God in his sanctuary; praise him in his mighty heavens! Praise him for his mighty deeds; praise him according to his excellent greatness!');